docs/detections/api/exceptions/api-create-exception-item.asciidoc, before:

[[exceptions-api-create-exception-item]]
=== Create exception item

Creates an exception item that you can add to a shared exception list or endpoint exception list. 

[IMPORTANT]
=====
* Before creating exception items, you must create an <<exceptions-api-create-container, exception container>>. After creating the container, you can associate exception items with it.
* Endpoint rule exception items cannot use
<<lists-api-overview, lists>> (the `list` in the `entries` array), and the
following fields cannot be used in exception queries (as `field` values in the
`entries` object):

** `file.Ext.quarantine_path`
** `file.Ext.quarantine_result`
** `process.entity_id`
** `process.parent.entity_id`
** `process.ancestry`
=====

NOTE: Refer to <<lists-api-overview>> for information about creating exception items from lists, such as a list of IP addresses or host names.

==== Request URL

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/exception_lists/items`

==== Request body

A JSON object with these fields:

[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================
|Name |Type |Description |Required

|`comments` |comments[] a|Array of `comment` fields:

* `comment` (string): Comments about the exception item.

|No, defaults to empty array.

|`description` |String |Describes the exception item. |Yes
|`entries` |<<entries-object-schema, entries[]>> |Array containing the
exception queries. Boolean `AND` logic is used to evaluate the relationship
between array elements. If you want to use `OR` logic, create a separate
exception item. |Yes
|`expire_time` |String |The exception item's expiration date, in ISO format. This field is only available for regular exception items, not endpoint exceptions. |No
|`list_id` |String |ID of the associated <<exceptions-api-create-container, exception container>>. |Yes
|`item_id` |String |Unique identifier of the exception item. |No, automatically
created when it is not provided.
|`meta` |Object |Placeholder for metadata about the exception item. |No
|`name` |String |The exception item's name. |Yes
|`namespace_type` |String a|Determines whether the exception item is available
in all {kib} spaces or just the space in which it is created, where:

* `single`: Only available in the {kib} space in which it is created.
* `agnostic`: Available in all {kib} spaces.

Must be the same value as its associated exception container.

|No, defaults to `single`.
|`tags` |String[] |String array containing words and phrases to help categorize
exception items. |No
|`type` |String a|Exception query type, must be `simple`. |Yes
|`_tags` |String[] a|For endpoint rules only, defines the OS on which the
exception is implemented. Valid values are:

* `os:windows`: Windows OS
* `os:linux`: Linux OS
* `os:macos`: Mac OS

The array must also include an `endpoint` element (to implement the exception on Linux hosts, use: `["endpoint", "os:linux"]`).

|For endpoint exceptions, yes. For detection exceptions, no.

|==============================================

[[entries-object-schema]]
===== `entries` schema

[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================
|Name |Type |Description |Required

|`field` |String |The source event field used to define the exception. Cannot
be an empty string. |Yes
|`list` |list |Object containing the
<<lists-api-create-container, list container's>> `id` and `type`. Only valid for
detection exception items.|No, except when using a list to define detection
exceptions.
|`operator` |String a|The operator used to determine when the exception is used.
Can be:

* `included`: The `field` has the specified value or values.
* `excluded`: The `field` does not have specified value or values.

|Yes

|`type` |String a|The `type` of query:

* `match`: Must be an exact match of the defined value.
* `match_any`: Matches any of the defined values.
* `exists`: The field exists.
* `list`: The field matches values in a list container.
* `wildcard`: Matches `value` using wildcards, such as `C:\path\*\app.exe`. Use `?` to match one character and `*` to match zero or more characters. The `field` data type must be {ref}/keyword.html#keyword-field-type[keyword], {ref}/text.html#text-field-type[text], or {ref}/keyword.html#wildcard-field-type[wildcard].
* `nested`: Array of `entries` objects. Nested conditions are required for
excluding some Endpoint fields (<<nested-field-ex-api, refer to example below>>).
<<ex-nested-conditions>> lists all Endpoint fields that require the `nested`
type.

|Yes

|`value`
a|String

String[]

a|Field value or values:

* String: When the `type` is `match` or `wildcard`.
* String[]: When the `type` is `match_any`.

|Yes, except when `type` is `exists` or `list`.

|==============================================

IMPORTANT: When you use <<lists-api-create-container, list containers>>
(`"type": "list"`), you cannot use other types in the `entries` array (`match`,
`match_any`, `exists`, or `nested`).

For endpoint exceptions, you cannot create exception items based on excluded
values (`"operator": "excluded"`).

===== Example requests

*Example 1*

Adds the `maintenance-job` process to the `trusted-linux-processes` exception
container:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists/items
{
  "description": "Excludes the weekly maintenance job",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "process.name",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match",
      "value": "maintenance-job"
    }
  ],
  "list_id": "trusted-linux-processes",
  "name": "Linux maintenance job",
  "namespace_type": "single",
  "tags": [
    "in-house processes",
    "linux"
  ],
  "type": "simple"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

*Example 2*

Adds hosts on which the `maintenance` process is allowed to run to the
`allowed-processes` exception container:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists/items
{
  "comments": [
    {"comment": "Allows maintenance process to run on the specified machines"}
  ],
  "description": "Process allowlist",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "process.name",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match",
      "value": "maintenance"
    },
    { <1>
      "field": "host.name",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match_any",
      "value": [
        "liv-win-anf",
        "livw-win-mel",
        "linux-anfield"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "list_id": "allowed-processes",
  "item_id": "allow-process-on-machines",
  "name": "Host-process exclusions",
  "namespace_type": "single",
  "tags": [
    "hosts",
    "processes"
  ],
  "type": "simple"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

<1> Multiple array elements are evaluated using `AND` operators.

*Example 3*

[[endpoint-item-example]]
Creates an endpoint exception item for files with the specified SHA-1 hash
value on Windows OS:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists/items
{
  "_tags": [
    "endpoint", <1>
    "os:windows" <2>
  ],
  "comments": [
  ]
  "description": "File exception for Windows",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "file.hash.sha1",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match",
      "value": "27fb21cf5db95ffca43b234affa99becc4023b9d"
    }
  ],
  "item_id": "trusted-windows-file",
  "list_id": "endpoint-exception-container",
  "name": "Trusted Windows file",
  "namespace_type": "agnostic", <3>
  "tags": [
  ]
  "type": "simple"
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> Indicates this item is for endpoint rules.
<2> Relevant OS.
<3> Item accessible from all {kib} spaces.

*Example 4*

[[list-item-example]]
Associates the `external-ip-excludes` <<lists-api-create-container, list container>>
as an exception item to the `trusted-IPs` exception container:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists/items
{
  "description": "Uses the external-ip-container list to exclude trusted external IPs.",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "destination.ip",
      "list": {
        "id": "external-ip-excludes", <1>
        "type": "ip"
      },
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "list"
    }
  ],
  "list_id": "trusted-IPs", <2>
  "item_id": "external-IPs",
  "name": "Trusted external IPs",
  "namespace_type": "single",
  "tags": [
    "network",
    "trusted IPs"
  ],
  "type": "simple"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

<1> The list container that holds IP address
<<lists-api-create-list-item, list items>>.
<2> The exception container's ID.

[[nested-field-ex-api]]
*Example 5*

Adds an exception for nested Endpoint fields:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists/items
{
  "description": "Excludes all processes signed by Trusted Signer, Inc.",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "process.Ext.code_signature",
      "type": "nested",
      "entries": [
        {
          "field": "trusted",
          "type": "match",
          "operator": "included",
          "value": "true"
        },
        {
          "field": "subject_name",
          "type": "match",
          "operator": "included",
          "value": "Trusted Signer, Inc."
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "list_id": "trusted-self-signed-processes",
  "name": "In-house processes",
  "namespace_type": "single",
  "tags": [
    "in-house processes",
    "linux"
  ],
  "type": "simple"
}
--------------------------------------------------

==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

==== Response payload

[source,json]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "_tags": [],
  "comments": [
    {
      "comment": "Allows maintenance process to run on the specified machines",
      "created_at": "2020-07-14T08:36:33.172Z",
      "created_by": "elastic",
      "id": "f6c61b4d-31dd-4a5d-8c73-f64787d03b4d"
    }
  ],
  "created_at": "2020-07-14T08:36:33.172Z",
  "created_by": "elastic",
  "description": "Process allowlist",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "process.name",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match",
      "value": "maintenance"
    },
    {
      "field": "host.name",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match_any",
      "value": [
        "liv-win-anf",
        "livw-win-mel",
        "linux-anfield"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "id": "1f4d38b0-c5ad-11ea-a3d8-a5b753aeeb9e",
  "item_id": "allow-process-on-machines",
  "list_id": "allowed-processes",
  "name": "Host-process exclusions",
  "namespace_type": "single",
  "tags": [
    "hosts",
    "processes"
  ],
  "tie_breaker_id": "bb04f1c7-2537-47c1-aaca-40a7c8f771d3",
  "type": "simple",
  "updated_at": "2020-07-14T08:36:33.339Z",
  "updated_by": "elastic"
}
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Modifies title for shared exceptions

docs/detections/api/exceptions/api-create-exception-item.asciidoc, after:

[[exceptions-api-create-exception-item]]
=== Create exceptions used by multiple rules

Creates an exception item that you can add to a shared exception list or endpoint exception list. 

TIP: Refer to <<exceptions-api-create-rule-default-exception-item>> for information about creating exceptions for a single rule. 

[IMPORTANT]
=====
* Before creating exception items, you must create an <<exceptions-api-create-container, exception container>>. After creating the container, you can associate exception items with it.
* Endpoint rule exception items cannot use
<<lists-api-overview, lists>> (the `list` in the `entries` array), and the
following fields cannot be used in exception queries (as `field` values in the
`entries` object):

** `file.Ext.quarantine_path`
** `file.Ext.quarantine_result`
** `process.entity_id`
** `process.parent.entity_id`
** `process.ancestry`
=====

NOTE: Refer to <<lists-api-overview>> for information about creating exception items from lists, such as a list of IP addresses or host names.

==== Request URL

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/exception_lists/items`

==== Request body

A JSON object with these fields:

[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================
|Name |Type |Description |Required

|`comments` |comments[] a|Array of `comment` fields:

* `comment` (string): Comments about the exception item.

|No, defaults to empty array.

|`description` |String |Describes the exception item. |Yes
|`entries` |<<entries-object-schema, entries[]>> |Array containing the
exception queries. Boolean `AND` logic is used to evaluate the relationship
between array elements. If you want to use `OR` logic, create a separate
exception item. |Yes
|`expire_time` |String |The exception item's expiration date, in ISO format. This field is only available for regular exception items, not endpoint exceptions. |No
|`list_id` |String |ID of the associated <<exceptions-api-create-container, exception container>>. |Yes
|`item_id` |String |Unique identifier of the exception item. |No, automatically
created when it is not provided.
|`meta` |Object |Placeholder for metadata about the exception item. |No
|`name` |String |The exception item's name. |Yes
|`namespace_type` |String a|Determines whether the exception item is available
in all {kib} spaces or just the space in which it is created, where:

* `single`: Only available in the {kib} space in which it is created.
* `agnostic`: Available in all {kib} spaces.

Must be the same value as its associated exception container.

|No, defaults to `single`.
|`tags` |String[] |String array containing words and phrases to help categorize
exception items. |No
|`type` |String a|Exception query type, must be `simple`. |Yes
|`_tags` |String[] a|For endpoint rules only, defines the OS on which the
exception is implemented. Valid values are:

* `os:windows`: Windows OS
* `os:linux`: Linux OS
* `os:macos`: Mac OS

The array must also include an `endpoint` element (to implement the exception on Linux hosts, use: `["endpoint", "os:linux"]`).

|For endpoint exceptions, yes. For detection exceptions, no.

|==============================================

[[entries-object-schema]]
===== `entries` schema

[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================
|Name |Type |Description |Required

|`field` |String |The source event field used to define the exception. Cannot
be an empty string. |Yes
|`list` |list |Object containing the
<<lists-api-create-container, list container's>> `id` and `type`. Only valid for
detection exception items.|No, except when using a list to define detection
exceptions.
|`operator` |String a|The operator used to determine when the exception is used.
Can be:

* `included`: The `field` has the specified value or values.
* `excluded`: The `field` does not have specified value or values.

|Yes

|`type` |String a|The `type` of query:

* `match`: Must be an exact match of the defined value.
* `match_any`: Matches any of the defined values.
* `exists`: The field exists.
* `list`: The field matches values in a list container.
* `wildcard`: Matches `value` using wildcards, such as `C:\path\*\app.exe`. Use `?` to match one character and `*` to match zero or more characters. The `field` data type must be {ref}/keyword.html#keyword-field-type[keyword], {ref}/text.html#text-field-type[text], or {ref}/keyword.html#wildcard-field-type[wildcard].
* `nested`: Array of `entries` objects. Nested conditions are required for
excluding some Endpoint fields (<<nested-field-ex-api, refer to example below>>).
<<ex-nested-conditions>> lists all Endpoint fields that require the `nested`
type.

|Yes

|`value`
a|String

String[]

a|Field value or values:

* String: When the `type` is `match` or `wildcard`.
* String[]: When the `type` is `match_any`.

|Yes, except when `type` is `exists` or `list`.

|==============================================

IMPORTANT: When you use <<lists-api-create-container, list containers>>
(`"type": "list"`), you cannot use other types in the `entries` array (`match`,
`match_any`, `exists`, or `nested`).

For endpoint exceptions, you cannot create exception items based on excluded
values (`"operator": "excluded"`).

===== Example requests

*Example 1*

Adds the `maintenance-job` process to the `trusted-linux-processes` exception
container:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists/items
{
  "description": "Excludes the weekly maintenance job",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "process.name",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match",
      "value": "maintenance-job"
    }
  ],
  "list_id": "trusted-linux-processes",
  "name": "Linux maintenance job",
  "namespace_type": "single",
  "tags": [
    "in-house processes",
    "linux"
  ],
  "type": "simple"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

*Example 2*

Adds hosts on which the `maintenance` process is allowed to run to the
`allowed-processes` exception container:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists/items
{
  "comments": [
    {"comment": "Allows maintenance process to run on the specified machines"}
  ],
  "description": "Process allowlist",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "process.name",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match",
      "value": "maintenance"
    },
    { <1>
      "field": "host.name",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match_any",
      "value": [
        "liv-win-anf",
        "livw-win-mel",
        "linux-anfield"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "list_id": "allowed-processes",
  "item_id": "allow-process-on-machines",
  "name": "Host-process exclusions",
  "namespace_type": "single",
  "tags": [
    "hosts",
    "processes"
  ],
  "type": "simple"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

<1> Multiple array elements are evaluated using `AND` operators.

*Example 3*

[[endpoint-item-example]]
Creates an endpoint exception item for files with the specified SHA-1 hash
value on Windows OS:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists/items
{
  "_tags": [
    "endpoint", <1>
    "os:windows" <2>
  ],
  "comments": [
  ]
  "description": "File exception for Windows",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "file.hash.sha1",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match",
      "value": "27fb21cf5db95ffca43b234affa99becc4023b9d"
    }
  ],
  "item_id": "trusted-windows-file",
  "list_id": "endpoint-exception-container",
  "name": "Trusted Windows file",
  "namespace_type": "agnostic", <3>
  "tags": [
  ]
  "type": "simple"
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> Indicates this item is for endpoint rules.
<2> Relevant OS.
<3> Item accessible from all {kib} spaces.

*Example 4*

[[list-item-example]]
Associates the `external-ip-excludes` <<lists-api-create-container, list container>>
as an exception item to the `trusted-IPs` exception container:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists/items
{
  "description": "Uses the external-ip-container list to exclude trusted external IPs.",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "destination.ip",
      "list": {
        "id": "external-ip-excludes", <1>
        "type": "ip"
      },
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "list"
    }
  ],
  "list_id": "trusted-IPs", <2>
  "item_id": "external-IPs",
  "name": "Trusted external IPs",
  "namespace_type": "single",
  "tags": [
    "network",
    "trusted IPs"
  ],
  "type": "simple"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

<1> The list container that holds IP address
<<lists-api-create-list-item, list items>>.
<2> The exception container's ID.

[[nested-field-ex-api]]
*Example 5*

Adds an exception for nested Endpoint fields:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists/items
{
  "description": "Excludes all processes signed by Trusted Signer, Inc.",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "process.Ext.code_signature",
      "type": "nested",
      "entries": [
        {
          "field": "trusted",
          "type": "match",
          "operator": "included",
          "value": "true"
        },
        {
          "field": "subject_name",
          "type": "match",
          "operator": "included",
          "value": "Trusted Signer, Inc."
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "list_id": "trusted-self-signed-processes",
  "name": "In-house processes",
  "namespace_type": "single",
  "tags": [
    "in-house processes",
    "linux"
  ],
  "type": "simple"
}
--------------------------------------------------

==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

==== Response payload

[source,json]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "_tags": [],
  "comments": [
    {
      "comment": "Allows maintenance process to run on the specified machines",
      "created_at": "2020-07-14T08:36:33.172Z",
      "created_by": "elastic",
      "id": "f6c61b4d-31dd-4a5d-8c73-f64787d03b4d"
    }
  ],
  "created_at": "2020-07-14T08:36:33.172Z",
  "created_by": "elastic",
  "description": "Process allowlist",
  "entries": [
    {
      "field": "process.name",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match",
      "value": "maintenance"
    },
    {
      "field": "host.name",
      "operator": "included",
      "type": "match_any",
      "value": [
        "liv-win-anf",
        "livw-win-mel",
        "linux-anfield"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "id": "1f4d38b0-c5ad-11ea-a3d8-a5b753aeeb9e",
  "item_id": "allow-process-on-machines",
  "list_id": "allowed-processes",
  "name": "Host-process exclusions",
  "namespace_type": "single",
  "tags": [
    "hosts",
    "processes"
  ],
  "tie_breaker_id": "bb04f1c7-2537-47c1-aaca-40a7c8f771d3",
  "type": "simple",
  "updated_at": "2020-07-14T08:36:33.339Z",
  "updated_by": "elastic"
}
--------------------------------------------------
